# Working From Home With a Newborn

Last November my wife and I discovered that we were pregnant with our first child; the following February I decided to leave my job as a high school teacher to pursue my new passion of working as a software developer in the education field. I accepted a "remote" position at the end of March that year and began working full-time from my home office in June as an engineer at [Burke Software and Consulting](http://www.burkesoftware.com). By this time we were 3 months away from meeting our son I was quite nervous about working from home and filling the stay-at-hom dad shoes. Since that time I've worked hard to constuct and execute a plan that has been largely successful for me, though I'm sure it will be an indefinite experiment in parenting. Recently I began searching for stories of people who were, like me, stay-at-home parents and remote software engineers. Surprisingly, my search went largely unsatisfied. Thus, I decided that writing about my success and failure as a combo developer/dad could be useful to the next guy/gal who picks up this path. 

## Preparing for Baby

As my wife and I were plotting our strategy for the new baby (and I do mean "plotting" - I'm sure other parents can confirm my meaning here), I was simultaneously transitioning from being a full-time high school teacher to and engineer. That transition was itself twofold: I was also moving from a work day at the office, to a work day from my own home. I'm sure any one of these changes, teacher to engineer, office to home, no child to first child, is challenging in their own right and to combine them all at once was an *interesting experience* to say the least.

Staring down this tunnel my first thought was of myself: I needed to stay healthy and strong if I hoped to be successful. I've read plenty of stories about home-based developers who let their health slip and eventually contracted a wide manner of unpleasant ailments. At the end of June I made my first purchases of the summer: a weight-lifting set (squat rack, power bar, weights, workout bench). When the Amazon shipments had all of them arrived, I began my [Stronglifts 5x5](http://www.stronglifts.com) workout. Since July I've consistently lifted weights 3 times a week, every week (with the exception of one week of family vacation). I've never been serious about lifting weights, and I'm certainly not a "strong" person by any stretch of the imagination. In fact I'm squarely in the "overweight" camp with a lifelong committment to asthma and a couple college-age injuries that have successfully (mentally) sidetracked me for years. So this stretch of working out 3 times a week for several months has been the most consistent routine I've established my entire life. 

With a workout routine initiated, my next idea was to prepare for a lack of sleep. I began waking myself up at 5am and spent a couple of hours reading books, learning new programming things, and generally just tried to get used to waking up early. In hindsight, I had no idea what a "lack of sleep" truly meant, but I do think this work of getting used to a very different sleep schedule was beneficial. 

